Global health grid

I see this as a practical way to implement ehealth.

The idea is to use azure page blobs using a separate blob for each type of data.

All patients are allocated data storage in a "patients blob" with each patient using up to 64 Kilobytes of data.
Similarly all providers are stored in a "providers blob" with a larger space allocation of 4 Megabytes.
Images in different size ranges from 2 kilobytes to 4 megabytes in separate image size blobs. These will be linked 
to the patients clinical data records.

Countries (or the world) can be divided into regions and these reagions treated as containers for page blobs data
belonging to that region.

 I use a naming converion for containers based on converting GIS coordinates to a hexidecimal sting represention
 quadrant, latitude and longitude as 5 characters "qnnee" where q is '0' to '3' and nn and ee are '00' to 'ff' values. 

Page blobs have a capacity of 1 terabyte which means that each qnnee region can store 2^24 patients (16 million) and
2^18 providers (250 thousand) and a similar large number of images. Similarly patients biometric data (iris scans) 
can be stored per region 


Azure only charges for the data storage used so there is no penulty for setting up all regions with maximal allocation.

Each country will be set up in the same way:

A list of regions will be compiled. (I have written a mapping application to do this semi-auromatically).

Patients will register in their region of birth or first landing in the country and receive a next sequence
number for the region (unique identifier). Providers will register in the region where they work.

A single software application will be written for providers to control the system. This application will include 
patient registration, recording patients' essential medical data (contacts, preferences, dependants, alerts, allergies)
as well a list of recent patients. Patients data will be shareable with any provider they wish to share their data with.

The providers application will also be able to record epidemiology and population health managements data. Provders 
will include clerical providers as well as clinical and technical ones.

From a technical point there are many advantages with this design. Particularly with data management, both for 
processing and statistics and biometric identification and for planning recycling of data storage in the long term. 
These things will be possible because the data will be centally stored and accessible for managing.

Tony Manicom