work on all the views

set relaycommands to control the whole flow
save button on the main view
region container (include) file with names of all regions for a country
if (sa then include sa.cs)

work on maps and regions
borders for hi res and low res 80x80 km

decide on fields for loaders
decide on fields for patients

loader and patient registration and loader hpcsa check

epidemiology top 40 list and save in loader registration page

? Write SAMJ article


I think this might something of a gamechanger for public health. Its a practical ehealth design that uses Azure Page Blobs
(which are similar to disk storage). There is no database or file system, patients are simply allocated a range of pages to 
store their e-health record. Providers' data and all e-health related data are simlilarly managed. There are numerous advantages
including low cost, huge scale and performance.

The core concept is how page blobs are allocated. It idea is to provide every patient with a relatively small 64 kilobyte record 
to store basic information including alerts, contacts and dependents and then the ability to link to other data such as images and
scans stored in separate page blobs. This gives the flexibility to record as much data as needed for each patient.
Page blobs capacity is 1 terabyte (2^40) providing storage for 16 million patients (2^24).

Of cource many countries have populations that greatly exceed 16 million and to solve that problem, populations are divided into 
smaller geographic regions using a biographic region - the patients region of birth or region of first dwelling in the country.





Many of the previous e-health attempts have failed. This one
uses a much simpler geographic (GIS) mechanism without needing a database. We will see once its built.



Implementing an e-health system for South Africa is part the Dept of Health stategic plan. However, its a slow process - there 
are various obstacles and no good examples from other countries worth adapting and a lot of money has been wated on failed pojects.

 

e-health can revolutionise healthcare and provide solutions for epidemics such as HIV and TB.

The e-health system I describe is intended for population health management which means identifying 
ways that help people look after their health and use healthcare resources in a sustainable cost effective 
way. The idea is to use information technology to monitor and communicate with patients and healtcare providers 
using ways to continually track of patients and providers, healthcare visits, epidemiology, statistics and costs.

The planned e-health software will use Cloud computing and organise work by dividing the population according to 
geographic region using GIS to name the regions and allocate patients and providers.

The central design feature of the software is the ability to support 'actionable' patient data. This means the
ability to track risks such as missed appointments or vaccinations and trigger actions such as sending an 
sms warning to the patient and simultaneously recording the statistics. There are unlimited applications for this 
technology which could for example impact management of HIV and TB by organising telemedicine, community health visits
and recording statistics. 

This means using technology to efficiently deal with the background repetitive tasks and freeing providers to do their 
clinical work with proper information technology and planning.

Cloud computing is ideal for the application and the cost is negligible.


How tasks an risks will be tracked.

When a patient is edited in any way, risks will be identifited and and the response will include updating the patient record to records the risk. 
Anything ouside the patient record (eg sms the patient or emailing a provider) will be dispatched to a message queue. Because message queues 
messages can only live for 7 days, messages delayed more than that will be stored in the patient record and can be delayed for any time. 
Once a week the whole patient data page blob will be processed and all due <1 week messages will be queued and deleted from the patient record. 
Its a bit convoluted but it will work!

 

The ideal system would monitor epidemiology, 
record individual patients healthcare status and all heathcare encounters, 
including outpaients and inpatient treatments, 
medication and prescriptions and referrals and telemedicine and 
support population health management though triggers and alerts originating from ehealth data.

Presently e-health systems are limited, poorly designed and many have failed in other countries.

I believe that the problem for e-health is the scale of healthcare. There are billions of people
and they all seek healthcare on average twice a year. For South Africa's population that's 100 million 
visits a year. No database can handle that, particularly if data includes huge such as X-rays.

A practical solution is to use Cloud data storage to provide the required scale. 
The solution I describe uses GIS methods to distribute storage and processing and focuses on 'actionable' 
data processing methods for population health management that will help monitor and control epidemics 
such as HIV, TB and maternal and child mortality.

Details

The solution uses Microsoft Azure Cloud storage. Blob storage containers are individually named for each GIS region as descbed below and added to an Azure Storage account owned by the country enclosing 

